---
layout: post
title: Hopes and Expectations
---

#### What are my expectations of the class?

My primary expectation of the class is a complete crash-course in basic full stack web development; I'm most interested in more experience with the backend side of things, like the API and database, but I've no real experience at all in frontend web development so I'm looking forward to getting my feet wet in this area. Additionally, I expect this class to refine my skills with relevant and useful software tools and products like Travis CI, Git/Github, Postman, and AWS. I first truly learned these tools from OOP 2 years ago, and I'm looking forward to gaining additional practice with them now. Lastly, I'm hoping to come out of this class much more proficient with Python, which I definitely lack experience with compared to Java and C++.

#### What did you do this past week?

This past week I got all of the basic "first week of classes" stuff out of the way. I bought all my books, set up my environments for this class and installed Kali on a VM for Netsec and Ethical Hacking, and generally prepared for the beginning of what is promising to be a busy but very worthwhile semester.

#### What's in your way?

I was the unfortunate victim of some really unfortunate health issues over the winter break. Without going into too much detail, I've been working on adjusting to a somewhat new state of life following some permanent damage from my illness, and it's made the start of classes a bit more of a struggle than usual. It's the first real challenge I've had in my life, but I'm confident that I'll come out of it a stronger and more committed person than I was before. 

#### What will you do next week?
Next week I'm excited to meet my groups for all three of my CS classes and start work on at least one of my projects. I've never taken so many heavy project classes at once, so staying ahead is going to be key. Next week I also get started in the two choirs that I'm participating in this semester, UT Concert Chorale and the extra-curricular Collegium Musicum, which should really help my general attitude and mental recovery. 

#### What's my experience of the class?

The first two classes of SWE were exactly what I expected from a Downing class: fast and packed with information, with the same infamous calling out of students that some love and others can't stand. In OOP, I sometimes had trouble keeping up with Professor Downing's pace, but I'm excited to give it another shot in this class. I know how much I'll learn if I do.

#### What's my pick-of-the-week or tip-of-the-week?

If this is your first Downing class, don't be afraid of his calling out students: it serves an important purpose in keeping you focused, and can be an exciting opportunity for you to have a quick dialogue with the professor in the middle of class, which could end up answering one of your questions that would otherwise go unanswered or have to be saved for office hours. 
